Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain a horror, sci-fi,
thriller film called “The Mist.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
On a gloomy morning in a small rural town
in Maine, David, an illustrator, examines
the aftermath of a freak thunderstorm that
happened the previous night.
An old tree had broken through their window,
and his son, Billy, calls David and his wife
Steff to see the lakehouse had been destroyed
too.
David sees that a tree from their neighbor’s
yard had fallen onto the lakehouse.
The family spots a sizeable amount of mist
coming down from the mountain, and David considers
it strange even after a heavy thunderstorm.
David then decides to head over to his neighbor’s
yard to talk about the fallen tree, and Steff
warns him to be cautious, alluring to David
and their neighbor’s past land dispute.
David meets with Norton, who’s struggling
to get his chainsaw working.
David informs Norton and sees Norton’s car
had also been damaged.
Norton then asks David a favor, asking him
to go to town to buy materials for repairs.
David agrees, thinking it would mend relations
with Norton.
Norton, David, and Billy head into town, encountering
repair vehicles on a convoy with the military.
Norton recognizes them as soldiers from a
nearby military base working on Project Arrowhead.
Norton asks if David knows about the project,
and David says speculations range from crashed
alien spacecraft to supernatural creatures.
They head into the store, and David chats
with store employees Sally and Ollie, who
are busy tending to many customers.
Norton thanks David, and Billy asks David
if he and Norton have reconciled.
David says it’s too early to tell, but for
the moment, they are civil.
A group of soldiers enters the store, excited
to leave the town for a short vacation.
One of them, Jessup, shares a smile with Sally
before greeting an older woman, Mrs. Reppler.
Mrs. Reppler greets Billy, asking him how
he managed the thunderstorm before rambling
about the storm and how it damaged a significant
portion of the town.
As Mrs. Reppler talks, David spots a woman,
Amanda, who gives him a flirty look.
Norton notices a Military Police officer entering
the store and talking to Jessup’s group.
Sirens are heard from police and the fire
department speeding across town.
The Military Police officer then gives Jessup
orders to cancel their vacations and to head
back to the base as soon as possible.
Everyone in the store stops when sirens blare
from the military base.
A man with a bloodied nose, Dan, comes running
into the store, shouting that there are creatures
in the mist that took one of his friends.
Ollie tries calming him down, but he cries,
telling them to lock the store doors.
One of the shoppers rushes out to get to his
car, but the mist rolls in, enveloping everything.
They only hear faint screams from the man.
Everyone stares at the store window in silence,
seeing nothing but white, when tremors rock
the store.
The store manager, Bud, tells everyone to
stay in the store, but a woman insists she
needs to get home to her kids.
Mrs. Carmody, a religious nut, says the fog
is death and is a sign of the apocalypse.
David later meets with Mrs. Reppler, and she
introduces him to Amanda, who is new to town.
He tends to Billy, keeping him comfortable.
Ollie, the store clerk, tells David he can
find blankets in the loading dock.
David heads to the loading dock and sees the
store generator had clogged.
He navigates through the darkness, and he
hears rattling coming from the store roll-up
doors.
The banging gets louder, and David runs back
into the store, scared.
He runs into Ollie and a few others who are
on their way to check the generator.
David tells them about the noise, and they
all go in to investigate.
Jim, one of the men, hands them flashlights,
and another store employee, Norm, joins them.
They discover something is clogging the generator’s
exhaust, and Norm plans on unclogging it from
outside.
David objects, saying they don’t know what’s
in the mist, but Jim and Norm want to proceed,
saying they don’t appreciate David talking
down to them just because he’s a famous
illustrator.
David defends himself, saying he’s only
concerned about everyone’s safety, but Jim
gets angry, threatening David.
The roll-up doors open, and Norm prepares
to head out.
The thick mist rolls in, and they all make
fun of David for being afraid of the mist.
Suddenly a massive tentacle materializes from
the fog and wraps around Norm’s foot before
pulling him out.
David dives in to help Norm, but the rest
of the men are frozen in fear.
More tentacles appear, and Ollie rushes to
get an ax.
The tentacles open, revealing claws and wounding
Norm, ripping chunks of his flesh out.
Ollie prepares to hack the tentacle off, but
it pulls Norm out, making Ollie miss.
Norm still manages to hold on, and David and
Ollie try to pull him back.
Jim and the other man are in shock, unable
to help as more tentacles wriggle in.
Ollie and David have no choice but to let
go of Norm, or else they’ll get pulled out
too.
Norm disappears into the mist, screaming.
Ollie rushes to close the doors while David
tries to fight off the tentacles.
He gets the ax and hacks away at one of the
bigger tentacles, chopping off its tip as
the door shuts.
David then punches Jim, blaming him for Norm’s
death.
Ollie separates the two men, and David continues
berating Jim for not helping.
They meet back up inside the store and plan
on how they would tell everyone.
David begins by telling Norton, but he doesn’t
believe them.
David then invites Norton to check the loading
dock to see the tentacle and Norm’s blood,
but Norton becomes hostile, thinking the group
would beat him up for payback for suing David.
The rest of the people in the store hear the
commotion, and David tells them what they
experienced.
Unsurprisingly, nobody believes them.
David then shows them the loading dock full
of blood and the disembodied tentacle.
Bud returns to confirm to everyone that what
David said is accurate.
Some of the shoppers help barricade the windows,
but Norton is unconvinced, believing the scene
in the loading dock is an elaborate trick.
He tries convincing some of the shoppers to
leave with him while Mrs. Camody tells everyone
that what’s happening to them is foretold
in the bible, and this is the will of God.
She continues talking until she becomes the
center of the store’s attention, and she
resorts to scare children.
She then declares the mist demands a blood
sacrifice.
Ollie tries to neutralize the situation, threatening
Mrs. Carmody if she continues scaring the
people.
Billy overhears the soldiers discussing something,
but David takes him away.
Billy is scared, thinking about his mom, but
David reassures him that they’ll make it
back to her.
David meets with the rest of the people, who
are arming themselves, and some suggest making
torches.
Amanda reveals that she has a gun with her
and hands it to Ollie, who has had lots of
experience shooting.
A commotion starts when Norton and a small
group decide to head out.
David tries to talk them out of leaving, but
Norton believes that leaving the store would
be the best decision to make, thinking there's
nothing dangerous in the mist.
David asks one of the men to head out with
a rope tied to their waist to retrieve a shotgun
in one of the shopper's cars.
A biker volunteers and heads out with Norton's
group.
David mans the rope tied to the biker's waist
until it starts getting pulled.
It takes three men to pull back the rope,
and when they manage to pull the rope back,
only the biker's lower half appears.
Myron and Jim fix up lights, attaching them
to batteries.
The lights would illuminate the store in emergencies,
in case something gets into the store.
Later, a massive flying creature appears in
the store window.
Soon, more of the creatures appear, and David
realizes it's the lights that are attracting
them.
More enormous creatures then appear and start
hunting the giant insects.
Jim and Myron rush to turn the lights on,
unknowingly making the situation worse.
The shop window shatters, and the creatures
pour into the store.
David tries lighting a mop turning it into
a makeshift torch, trying to fend away the
critters.
Chaos ensues as more creatures get in, and
some of the people get injured and killed.
Fire ignites in the store, and David and the
others manage to kill several creatures by
lighting them on fire, and Ollie kills one
of the creatures, saving Billy.
They manage to plug up the window hole, and
things calm down for a bit.
One person says Mrs. Carmody’s premonition
had come true as she predicted creatures would
come for them during the night.
David goes around, checking on everyone, and
another man seems he had been fatally injured.
Amanda sees another person had drunk an entire
bottle of sleeping pills.
David gathers with some of the survivors,
and they discuss the possibility of them leaving,
saying how the store is not secure enough.
David plans on going to a pharmacy next door
to gather supplies for the injured before
taking his car and driving away as far as
they could.
Some of the survivors agree with him, but
Amanda is afraid that the mist may cover a
farther distance than they think.
David acknowledges this but is also concerned
about how Mrs. Carmody is slowly garnering
a following with her religious rantings and
how the situation could worsen the group’s
paranoia.
Carmody keeps babbling about how the mist
demands sacrifice, and he’s scared the rest
of the survivors might start believing her.
Amanda says everyone in the store is civilized
and would never resort to a barbaric practice,
but Dan points out that scared people turn
desperate in situations like these.
A few hours later, David and a group plan
to get to the pharmacy.
Billy cries, afraid he’ll lose his father,
but David promises to return.
Carmody then stands in their way, telling
them going to the pharmacy will lead the creatures
back, bringing God’s wrath with them.
Private Jessup joins the group, leaving his
other soldier companions back in the store.
They venture into the mist and successfully
make it to the pharmacy.
They rummage through the aisles for supplies
and find enough medicine for the wounded.
They then spot webs in the ceiling and find
people wrapped in webbed cocoons stuck to
the ceiling.
One of the cocooned people suddenly grabs
Jim and is revealed to be the Military Police
officer.
He starts apologizing, saying it was their
fault.
He then starts convulsing, his eyes turning
white.
Jim then comes across one of the creatures,
a giant spider, and Ollie shoots, but more
creatures appear and start shooting out acid
webs.
One man gets his leg wrapped by the acidic
webs, and it melts his skin off.
The Military Police officer then drops to
the ground and bursts open, hundreds of spiders
spewing out.
The group is overrun, and they start retreating
to the supermarket.
Unfortunately, a few members of the group
get left behind.
They reach the supermarket all shouting and
scared.
David runs to Billy and holds him tight.
The following day, David awakens to Carmody
having a sermon with a large group of the
survivors listening intently.
Ollie says Carmody has become extremely convincing,
the group treating her as a prophet, believing
what she’s saying would come true.
Jim is wholeheartedly joined in the sermon.
David’s group is still decided on leaving.
He decides to talk to the soldiers, remembering
the Military Police officer back at the pharmacy
who was apologizing and saying it was their
fault.
They find Jessup and ask him what he knows
about the mist.
Jessup says he doesn’t know anything, and
the group notices the other two soldiers are
missing.
The group decides to look for the soldiers
in the loading dock, but Jim sees them.
They discover that the soldiers had hung themselves.
Jessup says the soldiers must have hung themselves
after he told them what the Military Police
officer had said.
Jim sees this and drags Jessup out to the
crowd, announcing to them he heard confirmation
that the mist is the military’s fault because
of Project Arrowhead.
Jessup admits he heard rumors about how the
military was experimenting with an interdimensional
portal, and Carmody begins reciting how Project
Arrowhead has incurred the wrath of God, calling
Jessup blasphemous.
The crowd starts punching Jessup, and one
of the men starts stabbing him.
Carmody then orders them to feed Jessup to
the beasts in the mist, and the crowd carries
him out, cheering and shouting.
Jessup begs to be taken back in, but Jim locks
him out.
Within seconds, a massive crab-looking creature
appears and snatches Jessup away.
That night, David comforts Billy, telling
Billy he will never leave him again.
Billy asks David to protect him from the monsters,
and David promises he will never let the monsters
get to Billy.
Dawn arrives the following day, and the group
prepares to leave, but Carmody is waiting
for them by the door.
She says they are blasphemous for disobeying
her, calling them sinners.
She then tells everyone that David’s group
should be sacrificed to the mist and orders
her followers to take Billy as their first
sacrifice.
David’s group gets swarmed, and they try
fighting back as Carmody shouts, ordering
her followers to kill them.
Ollie then steps out and shoots Carmody.
Carmody’s followers start backing away,
allowing David’s group to leave.
The group reaches the front door and starts
running through the mist to find David’s
car.
Ollie reaches the car first but gets snatched
by the giant crab.
The rest of the group are picked out one by
one by the giant spiders and get separated.
David, Billy, Mrs. Reppler, and Dan reach
the car, but the rest are less fortunate.
David spots Ollie’s gun and takes it before
he starts the car.
They pass by the store windows with the rest
of the survivors watching them drive away.
They go to David’s house, and David sees
his wife wrapped in a web cocoon.
He cries but decides to continue driving for
Billy’s sake.
They drive as far as they could, seeing death
and destruction everywhere.
A humungous behemoth filled with tentacles
passes them, rocking the car with each step.
They continue driving until they run out of
fuel, and the car rolls into a stop.
David looks around at the car’s inhabitants,
hopeless and defeated, and can tell they all
have one thing in mind.
He takes the gun and finds that it has four
bullets left, four bullets for five passengers.
David would be the odd man out.
He starts loading the weapon and fires four
times in quick succession.
David screams in agony before stepping out
into the mist.
He shouts and stomps, wanting the creatures
in the mist to come for him.
He hears rumbling, and as he prepares to meet
his demise, an armored tank appears.
The fog slowly lifts, and a military convoy
passes him carrying survivors and soldiers
armed to the teeth.
David collapses to his knees, his screams
filled with pain.
The mist clears as soldiers carrying flamethrowers
and rifles are lay waste to the creatures.
If only they have waited a few seconds more,
and they could have all been saved.